sl beta docs (#3705)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/snippets/_new-sl-setup.md

- You must have a successful run in your new environment.

:::tip
If you're using the legacy Semantic Layer, we **highly** recommend you [upgrade your dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-core-in-cloud) to dbt v1.6 or higher to use the new dbt Semantic Layer. Refer to the dedicated [migration guide](/guides/migration/sl-migration) for more info.
:::

1. in dbt Cloud, create a new [deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#create-a-deployment-environment) or use an existing environment on dbt 1.6 or higher.
    * Note &mdash; Deployment environment is currently supported (_development experience coming soon_)

2. Navigate to **Account Settings** and select the specific project you want to enable the Semantic Layer for.

3. In the **Project Details** page, navigate to the **Semantic Layer** section, and select **Configure Semantic Layer**.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/sl-initial-page.jpg" width="60%" title="Semantic Layer section in the Project Details page"/>

4. In the **Set Up Semantic Layer Configuration** page, enter the credentials you want the Semantic Layer to use specific to your data platform. 

>     * Note: We recommend using a less privileged set of credentials because your Semantic Layer users will be querying it in downstream applications. At a minimum, the Semantic Layer needs to have read access to the schema(s) that contains the dbt models that you used to build your semantic models.

Reviewer: I think a note doesn't need to also be a bullet. Also, I rephrased "privilege set" for those less familiar

```suggestion
**Note:** We recommend credentials have the least privileges required because your Semantic Layer users will be querying it in downstream applications. At a minimum, the Semantic Layer needs to have read access to the schema(s) that contains the dbt models that you used to build your semantic models.
```

> 5. Select the deployment environment you want for the Semantic Layer and click **Save**.

Reviewer: I was going to edit this, but now I'm not sure what I'd change. I find it confusing that we call them deployment environments and it also has a "Set as production environment" toggle and it's named "Production." Maybe it's me?

Author: i think we use deployment more and its what we use in the UI. but also use production a lot too. in this case, the screenshot example displays a deployment environment named 'Production.' It's usually best practice to name your deployment environment 'production' or 'prod' and your development environment 'dev' or 'development'

Author: i updated the screenshot title so it's clear that this is what the deployment env is named as:

>To set up your Semantic Layer configuration, enter your credentials and select the deployment environment. This example selects a deployment environment named 'Production.'

![Screenshot 2023-07-27 at 10 18 17](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/a33f74e6-064b-422b-8b30-f342a851fb1c)

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/sl-configure-sl.jpg" width="50%" title="Set Up your Semantic Layer configuration."/>

6. You should see connection information that allows you to connect to downstream tools. 

>     * If your tool supports JDBC, save the JDBC URL or individual components (like environment id and host). <!--If it uses the Semantic Layer GraphQL API, save the GraphQL API host information instead.-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** If your tool supports JDBC, make sure to save the JDBC URL or individual components (like environment id and host). <!--If it uses the Semantic Layer GraphQL API, save the GraphQL API host information instead.-->
```

> 7. Next, go back to the **Project Details** page and select **Generate Service Token** to create a Semantic Layer service token. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Return to the **Project Details** page and select **Generate Service Token** to create a Semantic Layer service token. 
```

> 8. Save and copy your environment ID, service token, and host for inputting into a downstream tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Save and copy your environment ID, service token, and host, which you'll need to use downstream tools.
```

> 9. Great job, you've configured the Semantic Layer 🎉! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great job, you've configured the Semantic Layer 🎉! 
```

> 7. Return to the **Project Details** page, then  select **Generate Service Token** to create a [Semantic Layer Only service token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens).  

Author: ```suggestion
7. Return to the **Project Details** page, then  select **Generate Service Token** to create a [Semantic Layer Only and Metadata Only service token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens).  
```

> 7. Return to the **Project Details** page, then  select **Generate Service Token** to create a [Semantic Layer Only service token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens).  

Author: ```suggestion
7. Return to the **Project Details** page, then  select **Generate Service Token** to create a [Semantic Layer Only and Metadata Only service token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens).  
```
